Section 11-8.  Zones requiring special consideration
To the extent necessary, the land-use element of the municipal master plan shall indicate the considerations and restrictions that affect the use of land. Considerations and factors included in the second paragraph (a) to (f) shall be characterised in the land-use element as zones requiring special consideration with associated guidelines and provisions. Several zones may be indicated for the same land.
In respect of zones requiring special consideration, the provisions and guidelines that apply or shall apply pursuant to this Act or other statutes shall be indicated to the extent necessary to accommodate the needs and considerations indicated by the zone.
The following may be determined to be zones requiring special consideration:
(a) Safety, noise and danger zones, with an indication of the cause of danger or environmental risk.Provisions may be made prohibiting or setting conditions for projects and/or activities, see section 1-6, within the zones.

(b) Zone requiring special infrastructure, with an indication of the type of infrastructure.Provisions may be made regarding infrastructure requirements in a development area, in the form of either prohibitions or orders pursuant to section 11-9, nos. 3 and 4.

(c) Zone in which special consideration is shown for agriculture, reindeer husbandry, outdoor recreation, green structures, landscape or the protection of the natural or cultural environment, with an indication of the interest in question.
When protection regulations are made for a new protected area or when protection regulations or a management plan for already established protected areas are revised, provisions may at the same time be made applying to the zone adjacent to a national park or landscape protection area to prevent significant reduction of the conservation value of the protected area.
Guidelines may be issued regarding limitations on activities and conditions for projects in order to safeguard the interest in the zone.
Guidelines may be issued regarding which considerations shall be emphasised when applying other legislation to the extent that the municipality has been given authority pursuant to the statute in question.
(d) Zone subject to restrictions and special considerations pending an administrative decision pursuant to the Planning and Building Act or other statutes, or which is subject to restrictions on such a legal basis, with an indication of the objective.
Restrictions imposed pending an administrative decision pursuant to the Planning and Building Act or other statutes shall be limited in time to a period of four years, but may by application to the Ministry be extended for four years.
(e) Zone subject to requirements for joint planning for two or more properties, including special forms of cooperation or ownership and conversion and renovation.
Provisions regarding such zones may stipulate that two or more properties in an area shall be subject to joint planning and that special implementation instruments shall be used. Provisions may also be made pursuant to section 11-9, no. 3.
(f) Zone where the current zoning plan shall continue to apply.