Section 34-2. Transitional provisions to the planning part
The King shall as soon as possible and within two years of the Act’s commencement present a document setting out national expectations of regional and municipal planning, see section 6-1.
The municipality shall by the end of the first year after the election of a new municipal council and county council prepare and adopt a municipal planning strategy pursuant to section 10-1 and the county authority/regional planning authority must prepare and adopt a regional planning strategy pursuant to section 7-1.
Existing national policy guidelines and provisions pursuant to the Planning and Building Act of 1985, section 17-1, shall continue to apply. Changes to such guidelines and provisions shall be made pursuant to the provisions of chapter 6 of this Act.
Existing county master plans, municipal master plans, including the land-use element of municipal master plans, zoning plans and building development plans shall apply until they are amended, revoked, replaced or set aside by a new plan pursuant to this Act.
The limitation on the right of appeal in section 1-9, second paragraph, second sentence, and in the right to make objections pursuant to section 5-5, last paragraph, apply only in relation to planning decisions made pursuant to this Act.
Provisions in and pursuant to the Planning and Building Act of 14 June 1985 No. 77 chapters VIII to XXI, continue to apply in respect of expropriation, site preparation(??), reimbursement, processing of applications, sanctions etc., in respect of plans prepared prior to the commencement of this Act.
Earlier zoning plans and building plans remain a basis for expropriation within the ten-year time-limit for expropriation.
The exception in the Planning and Building Act of 1985, section 17-2, third paragraph, no.1, in respect of buildings, structures, installations or fencing that are necessary in agriculture shall remain in effect until provisions are adopted pursuant to section 11-11, no. 4, but cease to apply regardless four years after the commencement of the Act.
Municipal regulations and byelaws shall apply until they are replaced by new planning provisions, regulations or byelaws. Municipal byelaws made pursuant to the Planning and Building Act section 3, section 67 no. 3, section 69 no. 4, section 78 third paragraph, section 85 third paragraph and section 91(a) first paragraph shall cease to apply no later than eight years after the commencement of this Act. The municipality may grant dispensation from byelaws pursuant to the provisions of chapter 19.
Proposals for the land-use element of a municipal master plan, zoning plan and development plan that were presented for public scrutiny upon the commencement of this Act may be finalised pursuant to the provisions in effect when they were presented. The provisions of this Act apply to other plans.
In the case of projects requiring an impact assessment pursuant to the provisions of chapter VII-a in the current Act, and where the planning programme has been approved, the impact assessment may be completed pursuant to those provisions.
The Ministry may by regulations make further provisions concerning how the provisions of the Planning and Building Act of 14 June 1985 No. 77 shall function together with provisions of the present Act.

Related regulations


Regulations on impact assessments


