Section 12-7. Provisions in a zoning plan
A zoning plan may to the necessary extent include provisions concerning land-use objectives and zones requiring special consideration in regard to the following:
1. design, including aesthetic requirements, and use of land, buildings and installations in the planning area,
2. conditions for use of land, buildings and installations in the planning area,or prohibition of types of use, including building limits, in order to promote or secure the objective of the plan, balance interests and take account of various considerations within, or factors outside, the planning area,

3. threshold limits for permitted pollution and other requirements as to environmental quality in the planning area, and measures and requirements relating to new and ongoing activities within, or factors outside, the planning area in order to prevent or curb pollution,
4. functional and quality requirements relating to buildings, installations and outdoor areas, including requirements for the protection of health, the environment, safety, design for universal access and children’s particular need for play and public outdoor areas,
5. the number of dwellings in an area, largest and smallest dwelling size, and further requirements as to accessibility and dwelling design where appropriate to meet special needs,
6. provisions to safeguard the conservation value of buildings, other cultural monuments, and cultural environments, including protection of frontages, material use and interiors, and to safeguard habitat types and other valuable natural assets,
7. traffic management measures and parking regulations for cars and bicycles, including an upper and lower limit for parking coverage,
8. requirement relating to facilitation of the supply of water-borne heat to new buildings, see section 27-5,
9. guidelines for special operating and maintenance measures in regard to land-use objectives nos. 3, 5 and 6 in section 12-5,
10. requirements relating to a particular order in which projects are to be implemented pursuant to the plan, and that development of an area cannot take place until technical installations and public services such as energy supply, transport and road networks, health and social services, child day care services, public outdoor recreation areas, schools etc., are adequately established,
11. requirements relating to detailed zoning in respect of parts of the planning area or particular types of project, and guidelines for such plans,
12. requirements relating to further investigations prior to implementation of the plan, and investigations with a view to monitoring and clarifying effects on the environment, health, safety, universal accessibility and other public interests in connection with implementation of the plan and individual projects within the plan,
13. requirements on the distribution of land-use values and costs related to various joint projects within the planning area pursuant to the Land Consolidation Act, section 2(h), see section 5, second paragraph,
14. which areas are to be set aside for public purposes or as common areas.