Section 11-9.  General provisions relating to the land-use element of the municipal master plan
The municipality may, independently of land-use objectives, adopt provisions for the land-use element of the municipal master plan regarding:
1. requirements regarding zoning plans for certain land or for certain projects, including the requirement that an area zoning plan must exist before a detailed zoning plan may be adopted,
2. the content of development agreements, see section 17-2,
3. requirements relating to specific solutions for water supply, sewerage, roads and other transport in connection with new building and construction projects, including a prohibition on or order for such solutions, and requirements relating to individual installations, see section 18-1. A provision may also be made regarding facilitation of the supply of water-borne heat to new buildings, see section 27-5,
4. requirements relating to the order in which work shall be carried out to ensure the establishment of public services, technical infrastructure and green structures before use is made of areas and the point in time when areas may be used for building and construction purposes, including requirements relating to the order in which development work shall be carried out,
5. building limits, building bulk and functional requirements, including provisions regarding design for universal access, play areas, public outdoor areas and small public squares, signage and advertising, parking, payment in lieu of parking spaces pursuant to section 28-7 and use of housing pursuant to section 31-6,
6. environmental quality, aesthetics, nature, landscapes and green structures, including regarding temporary and movable structures and installations,
7. considerations in respect of the conservation of existing buildings and other elements of the cultural environment,
8. matters that shall be clarified and elucidated in further zoning work, including provisions regarding environmental follow-up and monitoring.