Section 15-3. Compensation for loss in connection with a zoning plan
If a zoning plan by virtue of provisions concerning building limits within a road line or for other special reasons entails that a property is spoiled as a building site, and additionally that it cannot be utilised in another profitable manner, the municipality shall pay compensation based on appraisement unless it acquires the property pursuant to section 16-9. The same applies if the zoning plan entails that a property that can only be utilised for agricultural purposes can no longer be operated profitably. In connection with the zoning of nature conservation areas pursuant to this Act, the municipality shall pay compensation based on appraisement pursuant to the Nature Conservation Act, sections 20, 20(b) and 20(c).
Claims for compensation must be filed no later than three years after the zoning plan was announced pursuant to section 12-12, fourth and fifth paragraphs, or the decision was made known pursuant to section 12-12, last paragraph.
If the land is developed, the owner or lessee has the same rights once the buildings have been removed. The claim must in such case be submitted at the latest three years after this point in time.
Compensation for loss in connection with a zoning plan that is drawn up and adopted by the Ministry or by the municipality pursuant to section 6-4 shall be paid by the central government except as otherwise decided.
Where a property is developed in accordance with a zoning plan that gives it a significantly improved utilisation compared with other properties in the area, and the value of the latter is substantially impaired as a result of this, their owners or lessees may, be awarded compensation based on appraisement from the owner of the first-mentioned property. The compensation amount may not be set higher than the increase in value entailed by the improved utilisation of the property concerned, less the amount of reimbursement that the owner or lessee in such case has been ordered to pay pursuant to the provisions of chapter 18 of the Act as a result of the property’s utilisation.
Claims for compensation must be filed at the latest three months after the building permit was granted. The owner or lessee of property that is given improved utilisation may demand advance appraisement to decide the question of compensation once the final zoning plan becomes available. The compensation amount shall fall due for payment when building works are commenced, but at the earliest three months after the amount was finally determined.